The Abstract System for Computation
Standard Documentation

Introduction

	This document describes a programming language called the A.S.C. the (A)bstract (S)ystem for (C)omputation.
ASC is a hyper-language, meaning that it is a small sub-language suitable for adaptation to any problem domain.

Overview
	ASC provides a small set of programming abstractions which can be utilized to express computations. 
They are, in no particular order:
... Registers
... Values
... Collections
... Functions
... Types
... Expressions
... Images

	Computation happens through the interaction of entities. 
All entities can be used in computation.
All entities can be deconstructed into their component entities.

Minimal Required Character Set
	The minimum required set of characters for writing an ASC program is given in the block of characters below,
	
	a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
	A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
	0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 + - * / < > = 
	@ # % ^ & | \ ' " ` ~ !
	( ) [ ] { } . , ? ; : _

The character block includes the blank space and line break as "invisible" characters. 
Additionally, the character block corresponds to a subset of the ASCII standard character encoding.

Syntax

	ASC syntax is formed by writing a sequence of characters, called a string.
The string is divided into higher-order syntax components in a staged process.
First, special sequences of characters are identified and processed as symbols regardless of their position in the string. 
The remaining string is further separated using the normal rules for identifying symbols.
	Symbols are a continuous sequence of characters excluding the blank space and line break characters.

Default Expressions
	These expressions are instantiated as part of the initial context.

Evaluation Model
	An ASC program is represented by a finite sequence of expressions which may be nested.
Evaluation takes place by identifying an expression, looking up the expression's meaning in the context, and replacing that expression with the result of evaluating its meaning.

Context
	The context is an entity which represents the activation record.
There are specific abstractions which instantiate entities in the context.

Computation Environment
	Computations are performed inside an environment which provides the necessary resources.

