An Abstract System for Computation

This document describes the representation and interpretation of programs written in the Abstract System for Computation, abbreviated as the name "ASC".
ASC is intended to be a highly expressive, general purpose programming language.
It is capable of expressing the widest possible range of algorithms possible.

An ASC program is written as a sequence of expressions which map to constants, function applications, and nested expressions.
A program is executed by evaluating the expressions.
The most literal "result" of a program is then the entity which is produced from evaluating the last remaining expression.

The characters required by ASC are... 
	- the upper and lower case alphabet, 
	- the arabic numerals/decimal digits 0-9, 
	- single, double, and backwards quotations, 
	- the colon and semicolon, 
	- the period dot, 
	- the comma, 
	- forward and backward slashes, 
	- round, curly, triangle, and curved braces, 
	- the tilde, 
	- the exclamation point, 
	- the "at" symbol, 
	- the pound sign, 
	- the dollar sign, 
	- the percent sign, 
	- the caret, 
	- the ampersand, 
	- the asterisk, 
	- the underscore, 
	- the dash, 
	- the plus, 
	- the equals sign, 
	- the question mark,
	- the space

The text block below displays all necessary characters (excepting the space)...
	
	abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
	ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
	0123456789
	`'"~_
	!@#$%^&
	=+-*/.,
	\;:(){}[]<>

It's likely that ASC programs will be stored as digital text, using encodings that provide more characters than what's required here.
Therefore, extra code points which print symbols will be treated the same as the required characters.
Formatting and control characters are ignored but are still allowed to occur in a program and may change the appearance of the program's textual representation.
Characters which print some other form of blank space will be treated as the space character.

Some characters may not be used in the default notations provided by the ASC language. 
However, they are still considered necessary as ASC allows one to devlop new notations to use within the language.
A greater variety of characters is convenient for creating new notations.

Characters are used to form symbols.
A symbol in ASC is any sequence of characters which does not contain the space character.
The space delimits symbols.
Along with characters, symbols are another basic component used to build expressions in ASC.

A special sub-type of symbol is called a constant.
Constants evaluate to a corresponding numeric value.
A constant is trivially a symbol which contains all decimal characters (some of decimal digits 0-9).
A constant may be given a sign which is either the plus or dash character.
A constant may also be given a decimal dot character (the period character).
The decimal dot in a constant must always be between two decimal characters.
A constant may also be given a forward slash character in place of a dot.
If a constant contains a forward slash, it may optionally contain one decimal dot in the number on either side of the slash.
This allows for numerical constants of the Natural, Integer, and Rational numbers to be represented with various precision.
A number may be a simple whole number... 100
a signed integer... +100
a decimal... -100.001
a fraction... +1/3

Functions in ASC behave according to the mathematical concept of a function where a series of parameter values are mapped into a sequence of one or more expressions.
Functions are defined using two components, the declaration and the body.
These components can be written together or separately to define a single function.
The declaration specifies the function name, the arity, and the names of the parameters.
A function declaration which features parameter names, but does not define which types are accepted for each parameter is called generic.
A function which defines which types are accepted for every parameter is called specialized.
A function declaration may specify the types for any number of its parameters.
A single function may have multiple distinct declarations.
For two declarations of the same function to be distinct, they must have different arity or at least one different parameter type.
All declarations for a given function which have the same arity must use the same parameter names.
Declarations with different numbers of parameters may use different parameter names.

A Notation is a construct in ASC which maps a sequence of characters, symbols, and expressions to a function body.
Notations can establish parameters in the same manner as a function, except that they are captured from the syntax instead of identified through function notation.
Notations may also establish a hierarchy of grammatical contexts where some notations may only be possible inside a sequence which has already been captured by a specific notation.
A notation is formed through a number of components...
	- Characters
	- Symbols
	- Parameters
	- contextual nesting

Every entity in ASC has qualities which are represented by a type entity.
Types are viewed as non-descript geometric formations.
The size, shape, positioning, and dimensions of a formation are not known.
The only things which are considered are what features are present on a type, and what features are shared between two types.
Types can be defined as a unique form, a combination of multiple forms, or a superposition of multiple forms.
A combination exhibits all the features present in a collection of forms as a unique formation.
A superposition is not a unique form, but instead may simulteneously exhibit any one form in a collection of existing forms.

Features are not named, and each type may exhibit countably infinite features because the formation of each type is non-descript.
Therefore, only generalized statements can be made about the features of a type.
For example, a unique type may be inductively defined in this way... "A type, T, exhibits all the features of a type, T."
Statements can be made relating two types in various ways.
Two types can be related as either equivalent, disjoint, or alike.
Two types are equivalent if they have the same number of features and share all features with each other.
Two types are disjoint if they do not share any features.
Two types are alike if they share some features, but not all features.
Given two types which are alike, the super-type exhibits all the features of the sub-type and at least one feature not exhibited by the sub-type.
There may be multiple sub-types which are alike a single super-type in a many-to-one relationship.

ASC provides a number of types by default which relate to the entities used to construct programs.
Using the cannonical names of the types as they would appear in an ASC program, the hierarchy of default types is as follows...

Any
	Type
		Symbol
			Constant
		Function
		Sequence
		Module
		Data
			Large
			Small
			Integer
			Fraction
			Boolean
				True
				False
		Character
		Notation

Note that Any is not a sub-type of any other.
This is because Any is not a real type, but rather a shorthand for referring to a place where any possible type may be encountered.
To any other entity in the program, Any appears as a real type and can be used anywhere the name of a real type is allowed.
Type may be used to refer to all the default types, but it cannot be used to refer to a type such as... [~ & Any == Type]

There are several default data types which are required for any implementation of ASC.
Other data types may be added and this is encouraged to allow ASC to better use the underlying computer environment.
The types which are minimally required are the subtypes of Data as shown in the type hierarchy diagram.
The Large and Small types hold natural numbers, that is whole, positive values.
The Small type will occupy the least amount of storage units possible, the Large type will occupy the most possible units.
However, the Large type cannot occupy storage larger than the largest single piece of data manageable by the underlying environment.
The Number type is the same size as the Large type, but can hold both whole positive and whole negative values, a subset of integer values.
The Fraction type is not required to have the same size as the Big type.
It represents some subset of real values.
The Boolean type can only hold True or False.
It is the same size as the Small type.

Constant forms have one-to-one mappings with these four types.
These mappings may be overridden by an implementation where a more precise data type has been defined.
Generally, the data type which can most accurately represent the constant value will be chosen.
A constant without a sign or period dot will be mapped to a Big type.
A constant with a sign but without a dot will be mapped to a Number type.
A constant with a dot will be mapped to a Fraction type regardless of the presence of a sign.

Each of these four types has a precision which relies entirely on the underlying computing environment of the implementation.
Not all constants may be representable by the default data types.
If a precise constant value is desired, an expression can be written where all values are expressed as constants.
If any of the default mathematical operators are used purely on constants, they are guaranteed to yeild a constant with the most precise value mathematically possible.
For example, the expressions... 1 / 3 
or... 1.0/3.0
will yeild the constant... 1/3
The expression... 1 - 0.00001
will yeild the constant... 0.99999
Operations on constants are also guaranteed to yeild the most simplified version of the value.
For example, the expression... 20 / 60
will yeild... 1/3
