ASC
the Abstract System for Computation
Standard Documentation
Revision 0

Overview
	The Abstract System for Computation (abbreviated as ASC) is a tool 
designed for describing, performing, an reasoning about computation. It exists 
as a written notation and an environment for verifying and interpreting the
notation. This document outlines the capabilities and requirements of a 
verified implementation of ASC.

	ASC is a minimal language designed such that it can be adapted to the
widest possible range of computational scenarios. It provides a simple set of 
constructs: functions, collections, types. It also introuces new constructs 
which are generalized forms of multiple different concepts in computation: 
surfaces, contexts, and reflection. 

Syntax
	ASC syntax represents the correspondence between a written program and 
its computable model. Syntax is composed of a sequence of characters divided 
into sub-sequences called Symbols. These symbols are grouped into Expressions.
Expressions are then composed into the computable model of a program.

	The character block below visualizes the minimum characters required 
for the ASC notation.

	0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
	A B C D E F G H I J K K M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
	a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
	+ - * / < > =
	@ # % ^ & | \ ~ !
	' " ` . , ; :
	( ) [ ] { } _ ?

	The block consists of the ten decimal digits, the upper and lower case
English alphabet, plus, dash, asterisk, forward slash, less-than, greater-than,
equality, the "at" symbol, the number sign, percent, caret, ampersand, vertical
bar, backwars slash, tilde, exclamation, apostrophe, double quote, backquote,
period, comma, semicolon, colon, round brackets, square brackets, curly 
brackets, underscore, and the question mark.

	In addition to the required characters above, the blank space and line
break characters are also required.

Symbols
	Symbols are sequences of characters that do not include blank space or
line breaks. Symbols may also be punctuation defined for an expression.

Expressions
	Expressions are a sequence of symbols which are associated with a 
function. Defined expressions are exposed as surfaces in the Context.

Default Operations
	When the environment is initialized, it must be provided a set of 
entities enabling the default ASC notation.

