Standard Documentation for the 
 th
n
System for Computation

	This document contains the specification of "nth", a system for creating and performing computations.
This system is intended to be generally useful across all tasks which require computing.
The system is comprised of a description language for composing programs and a small environment to compute those programs.
In this document, the name "nth" refers to the description language.
The term "environment" shall refer to the mechanisms and resources through which computation is facilitated.
As this document is a specification, all properties and behaviors of the system described below are requirements.
	
	nth is written as a sequence of characters.
nth minimally requires the set of characters featured in the ASCII standard character encoding scheme.
Implementations are encouraged to accept Unicode Standard UTF-8 character encoding scheme as it is transparently compatible with the ASCII encoding.
The minimal set of characters is classified into the following catagories, letters, digits, blanks, and glyphs.
Letters are alphabetical characters in the inclusive ranges 64-90 and 97-122.
Digits are numerical characters in the inclusive range 48-57.
Blanks are non-printable or control characters in the inclusive range 0-32.
Glyphs are all other characters not already included in the other three catagories.
	
	The syntactic components of an nth program are classified as Numbers, Symbols, and Punctuation.
A symbol is any sequence of characters not including punctuation.
A number is any sequence of numerical digits (0123456789) optionally bisected once by a dot or forward slash, prefixed by one of either "+" or "-".
Punctuation is any of the following characters...
(){}[],'"`
A Punctuation character is treated as its own symbol where it occurs in a sequence.
This will cause any syntax component on preceding or following a Punctuation character to be delimited at the point where the Punctuation character occurs.
For example, the character sequence, "(abc,123)" would be interpreted as the symbols "(", "abc", ",", "123", and ")".
	
	There are several additional syntactic components which are given unique character-based notation however, they are shorthand for structured data rather than single values.
The String is formed by a sequence of characters beginning and ending with a double quote (").
The Escape is formed by a backward slash (\) followed by a double quote, a second backward slash, or a sequence of Digits.
An Escape may only occur within a String.
The Constant is a sequence of characters beginning with the apostrophe (') and ending with a Blank.
	
	Punctuation is used to form a Program Model.
There are several different forms of punctuation which each denote a specific component of a program model.
A grammar is featured below which describes how valid sequences of characters can be combined to form a program model.
A classification is a Symbol beginning with a capitol letter.
The arrow (-->) associates a specific classification with a line-separated list of other forms or classifications which may occur at that point in a character sequence.
Glyphs are interpreted literally as themselves occurring at that position in a sequence of characters.
Blank space is added for the purpose of clarity but is not included as part of the grammar.
An elipses (...) after a classification or form means that that classification or form may repeat any number of times from that point in a sequence.
	
	Program --> 
		Expression
		Sequence
		Collection
		Type
		Quote
		Symbol
		Number
		String
		Constant
		Blank
	Expression --> 
		( Program ... )
	Sequence -->
		Program, Sequence
		Program, Program
	Collection --> 
		{ Program ... }
	Type --> 
		[ Program ... ]
	Quote --> 
		` Program 
	
	The components of a Program Model are Expressions, Sequences, Collections, Types, and Quotes, corresponding to the classifications given previously in the grammar.
Expressions represent computations to be performed.
Sequences represent two or more computations to be performed.
Collections represent compound, structured data.
Types represent a set of unique data values.
Quotes expose a Program Model as a data structure.

	A Program Model is a data structure corresponding to a written nth program.
It is formed by nesting Collections in a tree structure.
The manner in which Collections are nested is determined by the occurrance of Expressions in the character sequence.
Each Expression corresponds to a single unique Collection in the Program Model.
If an Expression occurs inside another, then the inner Expression corresponds to a Collection nested as an element of the Collection corresponding to the outer Expression.
In the case of multiple programs occurring inside a single Expression, each program shall be included as an element in the corresponding Collection in the same order they occurred within the Expression.
For example, the Expression, (1 2 (3)) corresponds to the Program Model, {1 2 {3}}.

	The nth environment provides a Compute program which is responsible for interpreting the components of a Program Model and the computational effects they represent.
Every component in a Program Model has semantic meaning which the Compute program applies to achieve the required effect.
Program Model components each fall under one of two forms of semantic meaning, Constructors or Operations.
A Constructor is interpreted as a description of some form of data and computing a Constructor results in an instantiation of that data.
An Operation is interpreted as a transformation which performs an effect on data when computed.
Symbols, Numbers, Strings, Constants, Collections, Types, and Quotes are Constructors.
Forms and Sequences are Operations.
Combining Constructors and Operations into a Program Model will unambiguously represent the data used by a program and the exact order of computational effects performed on that data.
